You know what I mean?
Um, see, somebody got it.
Somebody got it.
I was waiting for the
one person to get it.
Uh, first question, I wanna make
sure, did everybody get one of these?
Anybody need one?
It's, uh, sermon notes.
Wanna make sure?
I think we caught most people.
I wanna make sure you need one.
There's more up here.
Okay.
All right.
So we are on the last.
Week of our series, we have been talking
about Shalom, shalom, and shalom.
Shalom is finding God's perfect peace.
So when you put those two words together,
it's peace, but it's peace on top of
peace, which is God's perfect peace.
And so it's finding God's perfect peace.
In the midst of our mental struggles.
Um, what we find is as we've been talking
through this series, we've had all
these different subjects we've talked
about that we struggle with mentally.
And so it's anxiety and depression and
worry and, uh, negative thinking and.
Trauma.
And today we get to talk about burnout.
And all these things are typically
topics or subjects that are difficult
to talk about in the church.
And the reason why, and I'll just
give you this great example, if
you've ever been around them, maybe
you're this person, you, and maybe
you think this way, I don't know.
Um, but when we begin to talk about
mental struggles, if you start to share
that I have anxiety, the first thing that
you'll typically hear from a Christian is.
We shouldn't have anxiety.
We're Christians.
We have the spirit of God inside of us.
And again, the Bible says that we
shouldn't have anxiety, we shouldn't
be anxious for nothing, but in all
things through prayer and supplication,
like so we understand the word
of God, but what happens when we
know we shouldn't have anxiety?
The Bible and God says, don't
have anxiety, but we have anxiety.
In the Christian world, typically if you
have anxiety and you know those things.
There must be something wrong with you.
You have some unrepentant sin, you
know, you just need to give it to God.
You just need to give it to God.
And we can say that about
depression and worry, and we can
say that about all these things.
And the truth is, and again,
so you know, as a pastor, 100%,
everything that we struggle with
mentally, we should give it to God.
Everything we struggle with
mentally, God understands and
wants us not to struggle with that.
But what happens when we still struggle
with it, even though we don't know?
And so that's why we've been talking about
this because I believe this is the place
that we should talk about these things.
If the church is not the place, we
can talk about our mental struggles.
I don't know where it is, guys.
I don't know where it is.
And so why I, I answered this question
and the reason why I'm kind of rehashing
this is cuz we're at the end of our
series is why did we start this series?
And I tell people I believe that
it was because of coming out of my
mental struggles as a pastor and as
a Christian, as just a person, that I
just felt like I can't be the only one
that's struggling with these things.
And so, uh, I'm gonna either talk
about it and you guys are gonna
minister to me while I'm preaching or.
We all find that we all
struggle with these in some way.
And I found over time that all of us
have struggled in some ways, right?
And so I think this has been
encouraging for us, hopefully,
that we can seek God's word, uh,
and find some healing through it.
And so if you're wondering, hey, what.
What did you preach on in the past?
I wasn't here for every week.
You can go to our website, inspiring
hope church.com/uh, watch, I
believe is what it is, and you
will find all of our past sermons.
Um, and so you guys know, uh, this
sermon series is based off a series
that I had learned and listened
to from a pastor in Oklahoma.
And that church really helped me
be able to take everything that I'm
preaching today and bring to you
through God's word, bring it into
our context and our circumstances.
And so I'm thankful for them in walking
through this because there's a lot
of professionals that they consulted.
You're gonna hear me mention some
words today that I wouldn't have
been able to figure out on my own.
So I hope that, again,
I'm thankful for them.
I'm hopeful this has been
encouraging to you guys.
So I really just wanna
start with this question.
Uh, have you ever came to a
point in your life where you felt
like you were always on edge?
Um, maybe where you feel like
you couldn't take any more?
Maybe if you were like
me, maybe you hit a wall.
Life became too much.
Um, maybe you just felt the pressures of
life mounting to a point where you just
feel like you're going to crumble anybody.
Okay.
Um, I think a lot of us has
probably come to that point.
And the thing that I want you to
know today is you are not alone.
I think that's something that
all of us need to take home.
We have an enemy that is
gonna consistently try to
tell us that we are alone.
And so you are not alone.
Um, and so what we find is there's a lot
of people in this church, there's a lot of
people in our community that are dealing
with these same things, but they're
afraid to admit that they're struggling
with these things for fear of judgment,
for fear of thinking that they're weak,
they're not strong enough, and especially
in the Christian world, because Christians
should have it all figured out, right?
I mean, We should be.
I'm telling you, just as a pastor
and maybe as a Christian for you,
you start wondering, I'm supposed
to have this all together, right?
I don't think that's true.
We're a broken people.
Just like anybody that doesn't know
Jesus or knows Jesus, we just have a
hope and the one that isn't broken, he
was broken for us, but he's now knew.
That's the one we seek in
the midst of our brokenness.
So this is a place where we can
be real and we can be broken.
And just so you can even know this,
again, this is statistics, but 2021,
they did a survey with workers and
they asked this question for those
who are working, how many of you
feel burned out with your jobs?
And over 50% of the people said at
that point they were burned out.
Now that is, just think about this.
That is only work that
they were burned out with.
Now let's add in home life.
Personal life, personal struggles, and
that burnout rate is a little bit higher.
Again, those are the people
that are answering surveys,
people that are gonna be honest.
And so again, for us, we understand that.
We understand that the combination
of all these things has led to,
to burnout in many of our lives.
Um, and I just wanna kinda
describe what one counselor says.
Burnout is, he describes it this way.
It's a reflection of our inability
to balance all the competing demands.
We struggle with, I'm
gonna say this again.
Burnout is a reflection of all of
our inability to balance all the
competing demands that we struggle with.
So lemme just give you some of those
competing demands that we have.
We have the social pressures that
we face, that we feel like, that
we have to be there for everyone.
If you're anything like me, we feel like
we have to be there for our family and
be there for our, our, our jobs and, and
for our extended friends and everything.
We wanna live up to not only the
expectations that we have on ourselves,
but the expectations that we believe
other people have as, as a parent or as a
child, or as a coworker, or as a friend.
We tend to wanna be available
or we are available 24 7.
And if you're on social media,
you feel like you're always
hooked up and, and available and
talking and sharing your stories.
And we wanna come through as though
we're positive and we wanna be able to
serve, and we wanna be able to give, and
then just add in the financial pressures
that we're living in in this world.
Right.
We have all those pressures of
needing to meet bills and, and
pay all these things for kids.
And if you know, I'm just
not talking about kids.
If you don't have kids right now
taking just care of life in general,
um, then you just add that to, for
me, I would just put this one in.
Those who do have kids, all the
kids activities every now of
the week on top of everything.
Then there's the one that
we don't talk about much.
It's the spiritual guilt.
See, we have all these other things
that are competing for all of our life.
And then this is spiritual guilt because
what happens is God should be first
in our lives, and we know that those
of us who maybe have given our life,
Christ, if you don't know that, that's
fine, but we typically know that, but
it becomes 10th on the list and we
only make it to number five every day.
You, you hear what I'm saying?
Like the spiritual guilt is, but it should
be number one, but I never get to it.
I never get to it, and I feel so
bad and I'm feel so guilty, and I'm
not living up to God's expectation.
Then it just sets in, right?
I think many of us probably feel this
way at times, and we find that now that
we know that over, you know, 50% of
people associate with those same things.
Here's what I find.
Misery loves company.
I think it's good to know we are not the
only ones, and now what I mean by we, it's
the person that you're looking at in the
mirror because sometimes you believe, why
am I just not able to handle this load?
Why, and that's what
the enemy likes to do.
So we're gonna talk about today
that we have a way to overcome it.
Why do we do this?
And, um, how we can continue
to, to move forward.
And so I wanna pray for us, and
then we're gonna kind of dive in
and kind of break this thing down.
So let's pray.
So Lord Jesus, because we know your
Lord and we're submitting to you and
what you want to teach today and how you
want to move in our lives, Lord, today
I'm praying for all the distractions
in our lives, Lord, to just go away.
I'm praying, Lord, for the hearts of those
who have come in burdened and maybe on the
brink of burnout or dealing with stress,
or maybe they're in the midst of burnout.
Lord, I'm praying that today
they will hear your voice
and they will find freedom.
They'll find peace.
They'll find shalom.
Shalom.
Lord, I'm praying that you move
in a mighty way because only
you can, and so Lord, we just
pray this in your heaven name.
Amen.
So I wanna talk a little bit about
stress, and I wanna talk about burnout
because they're two different things,
but stress leads to burnout, right?
And so we wanna kind of break those
down and see the differences because
every one of us has stress in our lives.
So the first thing we
wanna talk about is stress.
So stress is generally short lived.
Right.
It's related to a
temporary project or event.
So I wanna kind of give you
this idea of, think of a work
project that is due next week.
You're stressed about getting that done,
but there's an accomplishment point at the
end of seven days, you'll have that done.
There's stressed about a new job
or a broken down card that's gonna
get fixed in a couple of weeks.
And so those things are stress.
Typically there's an ending
point, so we would call those.
Is there, the end of it is in in sight.
It's a short term, but burnout
is chronic stress that never
feels like it will ever end.
It persists for a long time over
and over and over again, where we
begin to look at the stress in our
life and we see no end in sight.
We may feel at those points that there's
just like nothing else you can give yet.
The world, those around you expect you
to wake up tomorrow and to do it all over
again to try to meet those expectations.
So this is where we find ourselves
dealing with burnout, right?
And if you find yourself dealing
with that, I always say, good news.
The Bible addresses this and
how the Bible addresses this.
Sometimes it doesn't specifically say,
Hey, burnout, but what it says is, here's
somebody in the Bible who's walked through
a difficult, stressful season in their
life and this is where they went wrong.
And this is where God showed up.
So the good news, we get to do that today.
Uh, and if you were here with us
about six, seven weeks ago, we
actually started a little bit with
this story, with the story of Elijah.
And so, um, we're gonna be,
um, in, oh gosh, I'm gonna
look First Kings Chapter 19.
So if you wanna turn there
first, Kings Chapter 19.
I'm gonna give you some background
on Elijah and a little bit
about what he has been doing.
So again, first Kings chapter 19
verses we'll be up behind us as well
if you don't have a Bible with you.
Um, but Elijah, we, again, we've discussed
this story, but when we think about this
background of Elijah, and we talked about
this a couple weeks ago, Elijah was a man.
Following God, and he was used
by God in some mighty ways.
Yet when we begin to look at his
story, he dealt with anxiety.
He dealt with depression, he dealt with
exhaustion, and he dealt with burnout.
And when we begin to look at Elijahs
story and we think about all that
God did through him, I'm just gonna
kinda walk through some of this.
Number one, he was a prophet
of God, so God spoke to him.
And there was a time where he addressed
a king and he says, you know what?
This is the people of Israel,
God's people of the time.
And he says, you know what?
Your people have continued to send you,
continue to leave your people to send.
And so there's going to
be a drought in the land.
And so what did Ahab wanna do?
The king, he wanted to kill him.
And so what did Elijah have to do?
He had to run and hide.
And as he was running and
hiding, and as this drought was
coming on, God provided water.
But God not only provided
water, he provided food.
You know how God provided food?
By Ravens dropping food down.
Where he was at.
Crazy.
Right?
So God was providing for this guy.
Then at the end of this drought, God
decides to bring all these prophets of
Bell, which is the prophets that the King
of Ahab was following, which was wrong,
and he brought them all together and King.
Ahab said, okay then what are we gonna do?
How are we gonna fix this?
And so Elijah says, you know what?
Have the, the prophets of Bell begin
to call out to their God and we're
gonna have this offering out there.
And if your God will come down
and consume that offering,
then that God bell is the God.
But if I pray and I call on our God
the one true God, and if he comes
down and consumes this offering,
then he is the one true God.
And so, as we all know, if you've ever
read the story, it's all in there.
Just go and read it.
But basically we figured this out.
Is that the one true God?
Comes down and consumes
the fire when Elijah prays.
And so Elijah was part of helping all
these prophets, uh, basically be murdered
because they were false prophets.
And that sounds really bad,
but they were horrible people.
So right after then, Elijah
begins to pray and the drought.
Is now gone.
Rain begins to pour.
And the next thing that we see here in
this text, and I wanna read this here,
uh, just the first couple of verses it
says, Ahab, which is the King of Israel
at this time, is basically saying this,
he says he told Jezebel, which is his
wife, the Queen, everything that Elijah
had done, which Elijah had pretty
much ruffled some feathers, right?
And how he had killed all
the prophets with the sword.
And so Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah
and said, may the Gods punish me and do
so severely if I don't make your life like
the one of them by this time tomorrow.
So here's what we see.
Elijah, a prophet of God
that has been used mightily.
God has showed up provided for him.
Yes, there's been a lot of stressful
situations, but Elijah has showed up.
That's how all Christians
should be, right?
We should just be strong and courageous
and just do these a mighty things.
And you know, I think through
the spirit of God, that's
exactly what Elijah was doing.
But there came a point, and
here's the funny part guys.
All it took was one woman and he was done.
So women, you're very powerful.
Okay.
And nobody else said amen other than you.
Thank you brother.
Okay.
Um, and so what we see here is it
wasn't this one threat by Jezebel.
Here's what we know.
Burnout is all of them compounding
at the same time repetitively.
So this is just the one that
kind of pushed him over the edge.
And this is where we kind of
pick up to this story where
he basically began to crumble.
You guys know what it's like to crumble?
I'm gonna read more of the story.
You guys know what it's
like to crumble, right?
When we think about life, I'm just gonna
kinda give you a scenario here, right?
We're dealing with stress at work,
and this is what you say to yourself.
I'm okay, it's fine.
But the problem is, at the end of
your workday, you got a call from the
principal that your child got in trouble.
You get there and you're told by the
principal at how poor of a parent you is,
and you are, and how bad your child is.
It's okay.
I'm fine.
On the way home.
Your car breaks down.
And you can't get home and you have
to call a friend to get you home.
It's okay.
I think I'm okay.
It's fine.
Then you go to the doctor a week
later and you find that you need
more testing, and then you begin
to realize maybe I'm not okay.
And the thing that we realize is that all
these things that come into your life and
your story may be a little bit different.
Right.
You think of all the things that begin
to compound it over and over and over.
The expectation to wake up and go
to work and get past that stress
and to raise your kids right, and
to fix the car, and to go figure out
your own personal medical issues.
And the list goes on and on and on.
And again, we've, we've been there.
We, we live in a society where it seems
like there's never an end in sight.
We may look at what Elijah's
going through here and all that.
He went through and may say, well,
it's not as bad, maybe bad as him.
Or maybe we feel like
ours is worse than his.
And we've talked about this before.
We do not compare.
We wanna know why we don't compare.
And we go, well, you shouldn't be that
bad because my life's worse than yours.
Or, you know, vice versa.
We wanna know why we don't compare.
Because what you're going
through is real, your emotions.
The burnout in which you're walking
through is real to you, and for me to
judge whether my life's worse than yours
and you need to suck it up and figure this
out, I'm telling you that's not my place
because God cares right where you're at.
So let's look at Elijah's
story a little bit more, right?
So what happens after
Jezebel makes this threat?
So let's say look at
verses three through five.
It says this.
Then Elijah becomes afraid.
And immediately ran for his life.
And when he came to Beersheba
that belonged to Judah,
he left his servant there.
But he went on a day's journey
into the wilderness and he sat
down under the broom tree and he
play, prayed that he might die.
And he said, I have had enough Lord take
my life from no better than my father's.
So the question is, how does our
bodies respond to stress and burnout?
I wanna talk a little bit
about that before we dive
even further into this story.
So, We see that our bodies begin to
respond in three ways, and this is again,
professionals begin to tell you this.
Professionals will tell you what happens
to our lives and our bodies physically.
When we're going through stress,
we end up being more fatigued.
And again, you guys may even
start seeing these things in your
life begin more fatigued, low on
energy, finding it difficult to
recover from a normal day's work.
You may look and say, six months
ago I worked 45, 50 hours a week.
No problem.
Now I can barely get through a day without
needing to take a nap when I get home.
What's going on then?
We can't sleep at night though.
You're tired.
You feel like you can't sleep.
You feel like you're up all night.
Your mind's running.
Maybe your body begins to
ache and you have headaches.
So really basically what's happening
is you're feeling the stress and your
body and what happens in our society
when this happens, people start coping
by choosing alcohol or choosing.
Let me just tell you one of my weaknesses.
Food when I'm stressed, and
then those things compound
and add to all of our burnout.
We begin to struggle.
So physically is one of
the ways that we respond.
Number two is mentally right As we
continue experiencing stress and all
these multiple things going on, this
is where I'm gonna get a little bit
technical again, learning from some
professionals, this is what they say.
Our amygdala enlarges was an amygdala.
That's the almond shaped thing
in our brain that tells us
when we should respond, right?
When there's trouble around,
it begins to be alarm alarm.
So think about this.
If you think you see a bear, Out in the
woods, it's triggering and saying, run.
Okay?
But when it enlarges, meaning, the more
and more that we stress, it's always on.
Here's how I want you to think about this.
What happens when you press the gas
all the way down when it's in neutral,
it revs up and you hear go, eh.
Eventually what happens is
gonna blow your motor up.
What happens in this moment is
mentally we are a full blown.
Wide open and at some point
it's gonna break and many of us
are riding that red line again.
If you know tachometer, you know a little
bit more of this stuff, but it begins that
red line and we're pushing that red line
and we're holding wide open, hoping we can
make it without completely burning out.
So that happens, but then it
allows fear to come in, right?
We're more vulnerable to fear and it
makes us wanna run from our lives.
Here's another big word.
This is something else
that happens mentally.
Our prefrontal cortex tends to weaken.
This is the part of, of our brain
that helps us make decisions.
I'm telling you I have, this
makes total sense to me.
This makes it.
We become less confident
in decision making.
It comes to the point where we're unable
to make some of the smallest decisions.
If somebody says where you wanna go eat,
I know that's one of our biggest fights
in marriage, but sometimes we don't even
wanna make that because it's exhausting.
We don't even wanna make the
decision what clothes we wear.
It becomes exhausting for some.
They even lose their memory and they
become difficult to focus, and we
become difficult to focus because
we have so many things in our minds.
We can't focus on one
thing, so that's mentally.
The last thing is emotionally, as we
continue to battle stress, we become
less motivated to do anything, right?
We feel like a failure.
We begin to isolate ourselves.
We start saying, I don't like my job.
I don't like my marriage,
I don't like my friends.
I don't like my life.
And then as a believer, we
begin to be discontinued with
God and we start blaming him.
So the question is, and typically
what we ask ourself, this
question is, how did we get here?
How did we get here?
If this is the response, if any of this
starts to resonate with some of y'all,
the question is how did we get here?
What happened?
I've been asking that same question
for the last three years, and just
so you guys know, it seems like this
at, at this point, if you've been
here for all this series and you're
seeing your pastor up here talk about
every week, well, pastor Ben, it
seems like you've dealt with anxiety.
Have you dealt, it seems like you've
dealt with depression and, and you've
dealt with worry and you've dealt with,
you know, all this negative thinking
and, and you've dealt with some trauma.
And this week you're telling
me to deal with burnout.
You're a pretty messed up pastor.
I say the same thing in the mirror every
morning, and he, here's the thing, I,
I don't just claim it to try to relate.
I've gone through it and, and
we talked about it last week.
There's a reason why, because God
wants to use that story to allow me
to be able to relate with those around
us, because I'm not the only one.
So I've been asking the same question.
Why the last three years?
It seems like come
summertime, I'm burned out.
I dunno if anybody else can relate.
There may be a different
season of life for you.
It's just I'm done and I'm exhausted.
And I ask the same question.
Why?
Why do I keep doing this?
And this is where we get the opportunity
to come right back to Elijah and
see what led him to this point.
And so this is the thing, three thing,
three mistakes that Elijah made.
That many of us make
when it comes to burnout.
Number one, we run
ourselves into the ground.
So obviously Jezebel says this,
Hey, I'm gonna kill you if you
basically live till tomorrow.
Like, it's not gonna happen.
I'm gonna kill you.
And so what does he do?
He says, then Elijah became afraid
and he immediately ran for his life.
We run ourselves into the ground,
and the reason why we run ourselves
into the ground is because we have
this thought in our minds that
we have to do everything right.
Everything and, and something I'm trying
to encourage myself and remind myself of,
if there is more on your to-do list than
you have time for, then there is something
on there that God didn't put there.
And when that happens, we need
to ask and evaluate, Lord,
what is it that I put on there?
So we run ourselves.
Ragged basically.
And so we look at this
where we see he ran.
It says he ran all the way to be Yeshiva.
And if you were to look at this on a map,
many believe this was over 100 miles.
That's four marathons.
We don't know how many days it took him.
I'll just tell you this, I run outta
breath running into the fridge, 100 miles.
He had to be exhausted, so
he ran himself to death.
And it's easy to do that when we
think about all the activities
that we're involved in.
The while we're neglecting our
emotional, physical, and spiritual needs.
Number two, we try to
do it all on our own.
Let's see here where Elijah made the
next mistake he ran for his life.
And then it says, when he came
to Beersheba that belonged to
Judah, he left his sermon there.
See, in this moment,
Elijah's like, you know what?
I need to cut the fat.
I need to get rid of anything
that's holding me back from
continuing to run from this woman.
What he forgot was that servant
was somebody who co-labor with him.
Yeah, somebody that was a friend.
Somebody that could
remove some of the burden.
Somebody that on this long track of
journey that he was on and all the
stuff he was walking through that he
could just talk through things with.
He left the only person that could
encourage him in this moment.
So we try to do it on our own.
And so why do you hear me say almost every
Sunday you need to be in an inspire group.
You don't know the
importance of inspire groups.
It's not to give you one more thing
to do on your list that burdens you.
I think if, if that's a burden
to you, you're missing the point.
Inspire group's, not a burden.
It's an opportunity to not
leave your friends on the side
and say, I don't need you.
I'm just, I'm just telling you, when
you choose not to live in community,
you're saying, I don't need you.
I got this.
God said he created the body of Christ.
I love Sunday mornings, but Sunday
mornings is not enough for me.
I don't get to hang out with y'all enough.
I would love to spend time in
a room where we just hang out
and we catch up and we talk.
So that's my plug.
Go to an Inspire group.
Yes.
Thank you.
See, there's one person
that's, that's all about that.
That's just great.
I need to have you around
a little more often.
Okay.
So we find it more difficult right when
we're alone to deal with these things.
And the next thing that we'll see here
is the same thing that Elijah did is
we begin to dwell on the negative.
And so as Elijah goes on, it says in
verse four, he says, but he went on
a day's journey into the wilderness
and he sat down under Braintree
and he prayed that he might die.
He said that I've had enough Lord take
my life from no better than my father's.
I want you to thank for a moment.
I shared some of the God stories.
The things that God did in and through
this man, and yet in this moment,
only thing he saw was, kill me.
I'm worthless.
I'm not even as good as my aunts.
I'm, I'm worse than them.
All he saw was the negative.
Now, if you know me, that's
who I, I struggle with that.
I don't know if any, does anybody
else struggle to be thing that
please don't leave me out.
Great.
I got one of you, two of you.
Whew, man.
I was starting to feel alone for a minute.
We tend to dwell on the negative when we
look at all that God's done around us.
And we say, oh wow.
Right?
So he dwells on this and to a
point of him saying, I would
rather you just take my life.
And I, I think this is what's crazy.
He begins to compare his life.
So see this, he says, I have had
enough Lord take my life for I
am no better than my father's.
Do you know where we get caught up in
the midst of our lives looking across.
The way at our friends who seem to have
that great marriage, that person who seems
to be successful at work and they manage
everything well, their finances are great.
I mean, they're a great Christian.
They read their Bible every day.
Lord, I'm not as good as them, and if I'm
not as good as them, I'm not good enough.
Lord, take my life.
Anybody ever get to that point?
And now you wanna know what's
made that easier Social media.
The only thing you see on social media is
the great vacation and the great marriage,
and the great love note to my wife or my
spouse or my girlfriend, or you know it.
And here's the thing, we
wanna share those good things.
Keep sharing 'em.
But I wonder if somebody just put
on there, Hey, today really stunk.
I just, man, my life's
not in a good place.
Could you pray for me?
You know, people would pray.
They really would.
But most of us don't wanna reveal
that because it makes us vulnerable.
We don't wanna seem weak.
We want people to think
we got this together.
I'm strong.
But ultimately, God says
he uses weak things.
That's right.
And man, I'm reminded, I think I would
rather be weak if that's who God uses.
Amen.
So again, we catch ourselves
dwelling on the negative.
So how did we get there?
By running ourselves under the
ground, never resting, trying to do
everything on our own and dwelling
on the negative in our life.
But let's see, verses five and six here.
So five and six it says.
Then he laid down and slept
under the broom tree and suddenly
an angel touched him and the
angel told him, get up and eat.
And then he looked and there at
his head was a loaf of bread baked
over hot stones in a jug of water.
And so he ate and he
drank and he laid down.
So what happened when
Elijah was burned out?
What happens?
When we're burned out, God shows up.
Now you may be saying, he's
never showed up for me.
He's never showed up for me.
He's never put food next to my head
when I woke up that next morning,
and I think what ends up happening
is we're dwelling on the negative.
I think we wake up with this bent
mentality that God is against us
when we need to be reminded, just
like Elijah was, that God is for us.
And so he sent an angel.
An angel touched him.
And for some of us, we just
need a touch of God today.
We need to be reminded that our God
loves us no matter what we're going
through, and he wants to minister
to us and help meet our needs.
And for some of us, we're like, why
doesn't he take everything away?
And here's what God is saying.
He says, I have never promised
to take everything away, but I've
promised to be with you in the
midst of everything you go through.
And you may say, well,
that's a horrible God.
Why does he allow these things to happen?
And I say this, no matter if
you know Jesus or you don't,
we all go through struggles.
But God's presence in the midst of our
struggles is a beautiful thing because it
reminds us who he is and how good a God
he is and how he provides hope, and how he
provides peace, and how he provides us an
eternal, eternal life upon past this life.
So there's so many things that we get,
and so God sent us angel to minister
to him in the midst of his burnout.
That's God's desire for us.
So here's the simple
thing that Elijah did.
All he did this is all the work he did.
He got up, he ate and he drank something
and he went right back to sleep.
You know what that just told
me that sometimes the most
spiritual thing we can do is rest.
I am a doer and I think if I'm not
doing something, I'm not doing anything.
And why do you think God
created sleep at night?
To remind us of our dependence upon him?
Because when I am sleeping,
there's nothing I can do, nothing
I can do to fix my situations.
But God's not asleep.
God is still working.
And so in the resting,
And so this is a reminder for
every one of us, including myself.
Rest is spiritual.
It's godly food and nourishment
is spiritual and it's godly,
and God wants you to know that.
And why do we feel
guilty when this happens?
Right?
Why do we feel guilty when we take rest?
And it's because typically the
enemy is whispering in our ears and
telling us we're not good enough.
We're lazy.
We have enough to do.
We don't have time for this,
but we have to listen to God.
He created again the Sabbath.
He created rest and he
reminds us that we need it.
But here's something else I
wanna mention to you guys.
And this may be somebody else cuz
what you may tell me, I'm still burnt
out and I'm sleeping all day long.
I'm still burnt out, I'm still eating.
What do I need?
For some of us, we need to change a pace.
A different routine.
For some of you, you're really hooked
up in your job and you're working
heavily and hard with your hands, and
the way that we can begin to overcome
the burnout is to start working with our
hands and start working with our minds.
Most professionals will tell you
that if you're burnt and you work
all day long with your hands, then
you need to do something different.
With your mind, maybe read a book,
maybe do something that's enjoyable that
doesn't cause you to have to physically
work, but the complete opposite.
For those of you that are constantly
sitting and working or constantly
just sitting and doing something,
maybe you need to get active and
go do something different, right?
So we need to kind of change our pace
and do something in different to help
us disconnect from the stresses of life.
And sometimes that's
just resting with Jesus.
When it comes to burnout, one of
the things I think Elijah teaches
us that every one of us, no matter
where we're at in our lives, we need
an encounter with God in a new way.
And so we see this in in one Kings
chapter 19, verses 11 and 12.
So let's look at this.
So in verse 11, it says, then he
said, this is God speaking to Elijah.
Then he says, go out and stand on
the mountain in the Lord's presence.
And at the moment, the Lord passed by.
And a great and mighty wind was
tearing at the mountains and was
shattering the cliffs before the Lord.
But the Lord was not in the wind.
And after the wind there was
an earthquake, but the Lord
was not in the earthquake.
And after the earthquake there was a
fire, but the Lord was not in the fire.
And after the fire there was
a voice and a soft whisper.
We're gonna stop just right
there, and I want you to focus
more in on how God speaks to us.
God doesn't speak to us
in the extraordinary.
He speaks to us in the ordinary.
A whisper.
Why does God whisper?
Because he's close.
God does not have to scream at you.
He just has to whisper, and
that's what he's doing today.
He's whispering to you today
and he's saying, I'm here.
If you've dealt with burnout, I'm here.
If you've dealt with anxiety, I'm here.
If you've dealt with depression
or worry or negative thinking.
Trauma.
I am here and I'm present, and I'm
not leaving you nor forsaking you.
So where was God in this moment?
He was never left Elijah.
He was always there.
But Elijah ran assuming
that God wasn't there.
So here's what he's saying is if we'll
just be still, if we'll slow down, God
will speak to us in the ordinary moments.
If you're overwhelmed and stressed at
the edge of burnout and his voice seems
quiet, just know that he is close.
I just want you to know this.
God's whispered drew Elijah out
of darkness and burnout, and he
can do that for you and me today.
So if you're broken, here's what God says.
He's close to the broken-hearted.
If you feel overwhelmed, he came
to save those who are feeling
crushed, and if you feel hopeless,
he sent Jesus to provide hope.
You know, many times
the reason why we don't.
Give our lives to Jesus.
We don't give our
worries over to the Lord.
It's because we just don't
think he's gonna show up.
And you know what I love about the Lord?
He says, test me in this.
Try me in this.
I was talking to Brittany about this.
I was like, I really don't know how
to describe this idea of, and it's
this, you, there's, it's in verses.
I don't know where it's at, but it's, he
says, taste and see that the Lord is good.
And sometimes we just need to taste
and see that God will show up for
you, that you will trust him here.
Because when we refuse to trust him
in the areas of worry and anxiety
and all the things that we're
stressing about, what we're saying
is, God, I'm stronger than you.
You're not good enough.
And I would say this, test him.
Just try it.
What I, what I've found is that if
I will surrender and if I will lay
it before his feet, he will show
up in a mighty and amazing way.
Sometimes in the most ordinary ways.
So here's my hope, just
thinking of the whole series.
My hope and prayer is that those of
you that been able to listen to the
whole series, or maybe just today
that you've taken something from this,
that God has spoken to you and given
you something practical, but also
remind you that every single thing
relies on a relationship with Jesus.
He is the source and the provider of
every single thing that we can give
you because we talk about today, right?
You need rest.
And you need food and you need to get
your mind disconnected from these things.
And if we start doing all these
tasks, cuz that's what we wanna
do, we wanna run outta here.
I need to do X, Y, and Z and you're gonna
miss the first part, which is Jesus.
So in this whole series, we've given
steps to take, but I pray that you don't
just go put these steps in place and
you forget God directing and guiding
and providing in the midst of these
steps, cuz he's the one that's created
these things to provide us help.
And so for many of you, again, I
know you've struggled with a lot of
things like I have, and I just pray.
This has ministered to you, but I
wanna finish with reading, uh, a verse.
This isn't gonna be up on our screen.
It should be on your papers though.
Matthew 1128 through 30.
This is from the Message Bible, and so
I wanna make sure I'm describing this.
The message Bible is more
of a devotional translation.
It's not a literal translation, but I
love the way that it was described here.
This is Jesus speaking and this
is what he says, and this is, I'm
gonna read it over you and I just
pray that it ministers to you.
This is what Jesus says.
He says, are you tired?
Are you worn out?
Are you burn out on religion?
He says, come to me.
He says, get away with me
and you'll recover your life.
He says, I'll show you
how to take real rest.
Walk with me and work with
me and watch how I do it.
He says, learn the
unforced rhythms of grace.
He says, I won't lay anything heavy
on you, or Ill-fitting on you.
Keep company with me and you'll
learn to live freely and lightly.
I wanna highlight freely
and lightly just real quick.
Basically, this translates this way.
He says, I want you to
learn how to experience.
Shalom.
Shalom, God's perfect peace.
Everything that we walk through
in life, Jesus is the answer.
Jesus understands what we've went through.
If you wanna wonder if Jesus went
through some burnout as Jesus being
the son of God, you would think, okay,
no, he didn't sin, but he was worn out.
And you know what he did?
He rested.
That's right.
I mean, he has done so much for
us and so what do we need to do
to overcome our mental struggles?
We may need rest.
We may need to create some
different rhythms, but I promise
you, every one of us needs Jesus.
So I'm gonna pray for us and then I wanna
lead you guys as we talk about invitation.
I wanna lead you through invitation
on how we can seek the Lord.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we are so thankful for you.
We're so thankful for your love.
We're so thankful for your Word.
And Lord, as we dive into the
story of Elijah, Lord, there's
so much more to this story.
And Lord, I pray.
Many in this room, Lord, are intrigued
by the story of Elijah, and they'll
go read about the details and how
you showed up in his life and how you
worked in mighty and amazing ways.
Lord, I pray that maybe they saw Elijah
and they've heard these stories and, and,
and maybe they just feel accepted by you
because they see that there was a man that
loved you and served you and still fell
short and you still met him where he was.
Lord, one of the greatest things that
I see in this, and I pray that we
all see in this, is that when that
angel came, he did not judge Elijah.
He did not say, Hey, you screwed up.
He just ministered and he showed your
love and compassion to him and met
his needs where he was to pick him up
and to strengthen him, to provide him
rest and to provide him perfect peace.
And so, Lord, I'm praying that
over every person in this room.
So as we continue invitation, I have just
been led of the Lord over the last several
weeks to lead you through invitation.
Many times I say, Hey, just
pray and seek the Lord.
But I, I really want
to continue to do that.
So here's what I want you to do,
just where you're sitting, I want
you to begin to just take a few
minutes and just process through.
Everything that you've been
struggling with, it's burnout.
If it's anxiety, if it's stress,
if it's worry, whatever you've
been dealing with, I want you to
begin to to bring that to mind.
And I want you to just imagine laying
that at Jesus' feet and laying it down.
So I'm just gonna give you a little
bit of time to do that right now.
So just imagine what you're dealing with
and begin laying it down at Jesus's feet.
All right, so now here's
what I want you to do.
Again, it's so important that we
begin to think through these things.
So all those things that you've laid down
at his feet, I want you to just imagine
him picking those up and laying them on
the cross and just putting them up on that
cross that he hung on and died for us.
Just imagine him putting that worry up
there and, and all the stresses over
just our jobs and our kids and just
our life and maybe our purpose in life.
And just imagine putting them
on that cross and imagine Jesus.
Taking those away.
Imagine Jesus as he died on that cross.
He paid for all that
He, he washed it away.
He took it upon him so that you don't
have to bear that burden anymore.
Jesus took it away once
and for all on the cross.
And what I want you to do now is I
want you to just begin to praise Jesus.
I know there's people in this room that
may not know Jesus through a personal
relationship, personal relationship,
but I just in this moment, maybe you're
just appraising Jesus for the first
time and you're saying Thank you for
taking those things away from me.
Just begin to say thank you.
For removing the burden and allowing
us to be able to cast the carriers
upon him because he cares for us.
Just begin to say thank.
Jesus, as we continue to just pray and
praise today, Lord, I'm praying that
there were people in this room that
maybe for the first time were able
to completely lay down the worries
that they have in their lives, the
stresses that they have in their life.
Lord and I, I pray that they were
for the first time maybe able to
see that you took those from them.
Lord, I'm praying that there are
many people that are gonna be able
to leave here free of that burden.
The burden that we put on ourselves.
Lord, it's, it's too many
times we, we think it's all
about us and what we can do.
So, Lord, even help me
remember, Lord, that you.
Take our cares.
But Lord, I just pray as we,
we take some time to worship
at the end of today's service.
I pray that we worship like we are free.
I pray that we worship like we've
experienced God's perfect peace.
I pray, Lord, that you move in
our lives and I just pray this
near heaven, the name, amen.
I wanna mention one thing
before we stand in worship.
And this is something I feel the Lord
has continued to remind me of this.
There's many times during our time of
invitation, I present the gospel who Jesus
is and how you can give your life to Jesus
because Jesus came to die for your sins.
And that he's been given us freedom
from our sins and our brokenness.
And I've done that by just closing your
eyes and having you raise your hands
if you wanna give your life to Jesus.
And many times, you know, people
just don't respond and that's okay.
That's maybe where you're at in your life.
But I, I think.
That it's so important that we
look eye to eye and we say, Hey,
has there ever been a point that
you've given your life to Jesus?
Ask yourself that question.
Has there ever been a point that
you've given your life to Jesus?
Have you ever experienced
his freedom, his his peace?
Cuz if you're in this room and you
haven't, today is the day, not tomorrow.
I'm telling you, not tomorrow,
but today is the day of salvation.
And I pray that if you need to give your
life to Jesus, if you need to give your
life to Jesus, or if you need to give your
life to Jesus, that you'll do that today.
We're gonna do this.
Eyes open.
This is how we give our life to Jesus.
We admit our need.
So right now, if you're looking at
me and you're saying, you know what?
I need Jesus right now.
You admit your need, just tell
the Lord right now in your heart.
I need Jesus.
Admit that you need him to forgive you
of your sins and to help you experience
a new life, then right where you're
sitting, as simple as it is, all you
have to say is, Jesus, come into my life.
Come into my life right now
and live in and through me.
Help me experience that
perfect peace that you have.
In this moment, you can give your
life to Jesus, right where you're
sitting with your eyes open.
It's not a special prayer,
it's an attitude of our hearts.
And when you ask Jesus to come into
your life, and if you did that right
now, right now, here's what Jesus is
saying, I have come into your life
and I have saved you from your sins,
and I have transformed your life.
And from today on I will live in and
through you and you will experience
my hope and my joy and my love.
Here's my challenge, if you have given
your life to Jesus, Right now through
admitting those things and accepting him,
we celebrate with you because God has so
transformed so many of our lives here,
and we are here to continue to celebrate
and walk alongside you in this life.
God has not called you to stand alone,
and so my last challenge to you is
if you've given your life to Jesus,
that you don't keep it to yourself.
You don't have to raise your hand
right now, but here's my challenge.
If you give, gave your life to Jesus
today that you'll come and find me.
And you'll say, pastor Ben, you're
gonna have to call me Pastor.
Just say, Hey Ben, if you don't
know my name, just say, Hey you.
That works for me.
Okay?
Just say, Hey, I gave my life to Jesus.
And when you share that with me,
number one, I'm gonna, I'm gonna
celebrate with you, but number two,
I wanna walk with you, not only me.
Here's the cool part.
We have a family that wants to
walk with you, link arms and
say, Hey, let's talk about it.
Let's talk about what it
means to follow Jesus.
Let's talk about what it means
to understand the Bible more and
understand who God has called us to be.
And we'll do that, and it's a
journey, but let's do it together.
So that's my last ploy to you.
Please, today, before you
leave, if you gave your life
to Jesus, come and talk to me.
But here's what we're gonna do
now as an opportunity within at
the end of invitation is we get
to worship Jesus on the way out.
So let's do this.
Let's stand.
I'm gonna stand back here in the back.
If you need prayer, you wanna talk
to me, I'm gonna talk with you.
And, um, we're gonna
worship, so let's worship.